README.adoc, before:

= Baryonyx
Gauthier Quesnel <gauthier.quesnel@inra.fr>
v0.3, 201?-??-??
:toc:
:homepage: https://github.com/quesnel/baryonyx/

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Baryonyx[Baryonyx] is an integer and binary linear
programming solver based on the http://www.cse.chalmers.se/~dag/[Dag Wedelin]
heuristic.

[width="15%"]
|============
| https://travis-ci.org/quesnel/baryonyx[image:https://travis-ci.org/quesnel/baryonyx.png?branch=master[Build Status]] | https://ci.appveyor.com/project/quesnel/baryonyx?branch=master[image:https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/github/quesnel/baryonyx?branch=master&svg=true[Build Status]]
|============

Copyright © 2017 http://www.inra.fr/en[INRA]

The software is released under the MIT license. See the LICENSE file.



== Baryonyx

=== Requirements

* `cmake` (≥ 3)
* c++ compiler with c++14 support (`gcc` ≥ 5, `clang` ≥ 3.5)

For recent Debian and Ubuntu derivatives (remove clang to only use gcc):

[source,bash]
....
apt-get install build-essential cmake clang
....

=== Installation

First, we clone baryonyx git repository and the submodule.

....
git clone https://github.com/quesnel/baryonyx.git
cd baryonyx
git submodule update --init --recursive
....

Default, baryonyx provides a shared library `libbaryonyx-0.2.so`, a static
library `libbaryonyx-0.2.a` and an executable `baryonyx-0.2`. To compile and
install in default cmake's install directory:

....
cd baryonyx
mkdir build
cd build
cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release ..
make install
....

Previous command line install baryonyx program and library into the
`/usr/local` prefix. If you install into another directory, you need to define
three environment variables (into your `.bashrc` or equivalent). If you install
into `$HOME/usr` for example, you need to define in your `.bashrc`:

....
export PATH=$PATH:$HOME/usr
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$LD_LIBRARY_PATH:$HOME/usr/lib
export PKG_CONFIG_PATH=$PKG_CONFIX_PATH:$HOME/usr/lib/pkgconfig
....

Then run the following commands:

....
cd baryonyx
mkdir build
cd build
cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=$HOME/usr ..
make install
....

To override the default build flags, remove the `CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE`
parameter and override the `CXXFLAGS` as follow:

....
export CC=gcc-7
export CXX=g++-7
export CXXFLAGS='-Wall -Wextra -Werror -ftree-vectorize -mmmx -msse -msse2 -msse3 -O3'
cmake -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=$HOME/usr ..
....

=== Usage

To run baryonyx in solver mode (ie. trying to valid all constraints):

....
baryonyx-0.2 file.lp
....

To run baryonyx into the heuristic model (ie. trying to valid all
constraints and optimize the solution), add a `-o` or `--optimize`
option to the command line:

....
baryonyx-0.2 file.lp
....

The baryonyx solver have many parameters. Some parameters are global, some specific for the optimization algorithms.

.Table Command line global parameters
[cols="1,1,5a", options="header"]
|===
|name| type| summary

| --help -h
|
| Show help message

| --quiet -q
|
| Remove many console output

| --optimize -O
|
| Start Baryonyx in optimization mode, default is to use the solve mode

| --limit -l -plimit
| integer
| number of loop to stop algorithm

| --verbose -v
| integer
| verbose level from 0 (very very verbose in debug mode) to 7 (quiet)

| --disable-preprocessing -np
|
| disable the use of preprocessing
|===

To assign parameters to solver or optimizer algorithms, use the `-p
[name]:value` syntax in the command line:

.Table Command line parameters
[cols="1,1,5a", options="header"]
|===
|name| type| summary

| time-limit
| real
| time in second to stop algorithm or stop the optimize mode

| observation
| string
| Select the type of observation mechanism

* `none` no observation (default).
* `pnm` produce picture files for the P matrix (one per loop) and Pi vector (Lagrangian multipliers) each loop
* `file` produce CSV files for the P matrix (one per loop) and Pi vector (Lagrangian multipliers) each loop

| limit
| integer
| number of loop to stop algorithm

| w
| integer
| warmup-iterator (number of loop without updating kappa)

| theta
| real
| history parameters [0, 1[

| delta
| real
| influence parameters [0, +oo[

| kappa-min
| real
| kappa minimal value  [0, kappa-max

| kappa-step
| real
| kappa updater [0, +oo[

| kappa-max
| real
| kappa maximal value ]kappa-min, +oo[ to stop algorithm

| alpha
| real
| adaptiveness parameter

| pushing-k-factor
| integer
| use to lower the kappa using the push system

| pushes-limit
| integer
| number of push before stopping the algorithm

| pushing-objective-amplifier
| real
| use to make r more similar to costs

| pushing-iteration-limit
| integer
| number of loop before trying a new push

| norm
| string
| Select the cost normalization function

* `none`  let unmodified costs.
* `l1` use the l1-norm function
* `l2` use the l2-norm function
* `rng` (experimental)
* `inf` (default): use the infinity norm.

| constraint-order
| string
| Remaining constraints order. Values are:

* `none` (default): use the lp format constraint order
* `reversing`: reverse the lp format constraint order
* `random-sorting`: random the remaining constraint list.
* `infeasibility-decr`: compute infeasibility constraint in decremental order
* `infeasibility-incr`: compute infeasibility constraint in incremental order.

| preprocessing
| string
| Constraints matrix A order. Values are:

* `none` (default): use the lp format constraint order.
* `less,greater,equal` or `greater,less,equal` or any other form: use the type of operator
* `variables-number` (experimental): use number variable links.
* `variables-weight` (experimental): sort variables weights (sum variable appearance in all constraints).
* `constraints-weight` (experimental): use number constraint links.

| print-level
| integer
| show information if greater than 0

| init-policy
| string
| Change the (re)initialization policy of the solution vector. Values are:

* `bastert` (default): use cost values.
* `random`: use random value.
* `best`: use best solution found if available (`bastert` otherwise).

| init-random
| real
| [0-1] p parameter of the bernoulli's law.
|===

For example:

....
baryonyx -p limit:1000000 lib/test/prevl1.lp
baryonyx -p limit:-1 -p kappa-min:0.2 lib/test/prevl1.lp
....

=== Upgrade

To upgrade to the latest version of baryonyx, under bash (or
equivalent):

....
cd baryonyx
git pull -r
cd build
make -j4
make install install
....

== R

To use rbaryonyx, you must compile and install the baryonyx library.
Follow the previous section and install R.

=== Installation

The R rbaryonyx package requires several packages. Then, under a R terminal:

....
cd baryonyx/rbaryonyx
R CMD REMOVE rbaryonyx <1>

install.packages("roxygen2") <2>
install.packages("Rcpp")
install.packages("devtools")

library(Rcpp) <3>
compileAttributes(".")
library(devtools)
devtools::document()
devtools::build()
devtools::install()

library(rbaryonyx) <4>
?rbaryonyx <5>
....

<1> Remove previous installed version of rbaryonyx
<2> Install the dependencies of rbaryonyx
<3> Build the rbaryonyx package
<4> Load the package
<5> The help

=== API

Two functions are provided to solve or optimize 01 linear programming
problem. Parameters are the same as `C++ API`. These function returns a
scalar:

* If a solution is found:
** if the problem is a minimization: the value of the solution found.
** if the problem is a maximization: the inverse of the solution found.
* If no solution is found, we use the limits of the objective function (minimal
  and maximal value possible.
** if the problem is a minimization: the maximal value possible + the remaining
   constraints.
** if the problem is a maximization: the inverse of the minimal value possible
   + the remaining constraints.
* If a error occurred (not enough memory, problem error etc.):
** if the problem is a minimization: the maximal value possible + the number of
   constraints .
** if the problem is a maximization: the inverse of the minimal value possible
   + the number of constraints.

[source,R]
----
solve_01lp_problem <- function(file_path, limit = 1000L, theta = 0.5,
  delta = 1e-4, constraint_order = 0L, kappa_min = 0.1, kappa_step = 1e-4,
  kappa_max = 1.0, alpha = 1.0, w = 500L, time_limit = 10.0, seed = -1L,
  thread = 1L, norm = 4L, pushing_k_factor = 0.9,
  pushing_objective_amplifier = 5.0, pushes_limit = 10L,
  pushing_iteration_limit = 20L, init_policy = 0L, init_random = 0.5,
  float_type = 1L, verbose = TRUE)

optimize_01lp_problem <- function(file_path, limit = 1000L, theta = 0.5,
  delta = 1e-4, constraint_order = 0L, kappa_min = 0.1, kappa_step = 1e-4,
  kappa_max = 1.0, alpha = 1.0, w = 500L, time_limit = 10.0, seed = -1L,
  thread = 1L, norm = 4L, pushing_k_factor = 0.9,
  pushing_objective_amplifier = 5.0, pushes_limit = 10L,
  pushing_iteration_limit = 20L, init_policy = 0L, init_random = 0.5,
  float_type = 1L, verbose = TRUE)
----

=== Usage

Apply morris method to found useful parameters:

[source,R]
----
library(rbaryonyx)
library(sensitivity)

factors = c("theta", "delta", "constraint_order", "kappa_min", "kappa_step",
  "kappa_max", "alpha", "w", "norm", "pushing_k_factor",
  "pushing_objective_amplifier", "pushes_limit", "pushing_iteration_limit",
  "float_type")

bounds = data.frame(
  min=c(
    0,     # theta
    0,     # delta
    0,     # constraint_order
    0,     # kappa_min
    1e-16, # kappa_step
    1.0,   # kappa_max
    0.0,   # alpha
    50,    # w
    0,     # norm
    0.1,   # pushing_k_factor
    1.0,   # pushing_objective_amplifier
    10,    # pushes_limit
    20,    # pushing_iteration_limit
    0,     # init_policy
    0.0,   # init_random
    0
    ),    # float_type
max=c(
    1,     # theta
    0,     # delta
    4,     # constraint_order
    0.1,   # kappa_min
    1e-1,  # kappa_step
    1.0,   # kappa_max
    2.0,   # alpha
    500,   # w
    4,     # norm
    1,     # pushing_k_factor
    10.0,  # pushing_objective_amplifier
    100,   # pushes_limit
    200,   # pushing_iteration_limit
    2,     # init_policy
    1.0,   # init_random
    2))    # float_type

rownames(bounds) <- factors

morrisDesign <- morris(model = NULL,
                factors = factors,
                r = 10,
                design=list(type="oat", levels=10, grid.jump=5),
                binf = bounds$min,
                bsup = bounds$max,
                scale=TRUE)

solve_lp <- function(x, file_path, limit=10000, time_limit=10, seed=123456789, thread=1) {
  r <- rbaryonyx::solve_01lp_problem(file_path = file_path,
                   limit = limit,
                   theta = x["theta"],
                   delta = x["delta"],
                   constraint_order = x["constraint_order"],
                   kappa_min = x["kappa_min"],
                   kappa_step = x["kappa_step"],
                   kappa_max = x["kappa_max"],
                   alpha = x["alpha"],
                   w = x["w"],
                   time_limit = time_limit,
                   seed = seed,
                   thread = thread,
                   norm = x["norm"],
                   pushing_k_factor = x["pushing_k_factor"],
                   pushing_objective_amplifier = x["pushing_objective_amplifier,"],
                   pushes_limit = x["pushes_limit"],
                   pushing_iteration_limit = x["pushing_iteration_limit"],
                   init_policy = x["init_policy"],
                   init_random = x["init_random"],
                   float_type = x["float_type"])

  return(r)
}

r = apply(morrisDesign$X, 1, solve_lp, file_path="verger_5_5.lp", thread=1, limit=10000, time_limit=10, seed=123456789)

morrisDesign$Y <- r
mu <- apply(morrisDesign$X,2,mean)
mu.star <- apply(morrisDesign$X, 2, function(x) mean(abs(x)))
sigma <- apply(morrisDesign$ee, 2, sd)

apply(morrisDesign$X, 2, function(v) plot(factor(v), r))
----

Use RGenoud method to found best paramter values:

[source,R]
----
library(rgenoud)
library(rbaryonyx)
library(parallel)

optim_gen_lp <- function(x) {
  r <- rbaryonyx::optimize_01lp_problem(
           file_path = "rail507pre.lp",
           limit = -1,
           theta = x[1],
           delta = x[2],
           constraint_order = 0,
           kappa_min = x[3],
           kappa_step = x[4],
           kappa_max = 1.0,
           alpha = 1.0,
           w = 60,
           time_limit = 10,
           seed = 123654785,
           thread = 4,
           norm = 0,
           pushing_k_factor = 1,
           pushing_objective_amplifier = 10,
           pushes_limit = 20,
           pushing_iteration_limit = 50,
           init_policy = 0,
           init_random = 0.5,
           float_type = 1,
           verbose = FALSE)

  return(r)
}

d = matrix(c(0.0, 0.00001, 0.0, 1e-10,
             1.0, 0.001,   0.2, 1e-4),
             nrow=4, ncol=2)

s = c(0.5, 0.003226, 0.1, 1e-8)

no_cores <- detectCores() - 1
cl <- makeCluster(no_cores, outfile="debug.txt")

claw1 <- genoud(optim_gen_lp, nvars=4,
                Domains=d,
                starting.values=s,
                cluster=cl,
                boundary.enforcement=1,
                max=FALSE, pop.size=10)
----


=== Upgrade

To upgrade to the latest version of rbaryonyx, under bash (or
equivalent):

[source,bash]
----
cd baryonyx
git pull -r <1>
cd build
make -j4 <2>
make install
R CMD REMOVE rbaryonyx <3>
cd rbaryonyx
Rscript -e 'library(Rcpp); compileAttributes(".")'
Rscript -e 'library(devtools); devtools::document()'
cd ..
R CMD build rbaryonyx <4>
R CMD INSTALL rbaryonyx_1.0.tar.gz
----

<1> Update the baryonyx and rbaryonyx from Git
<2> Build and install baryonyx
<3> Remove old rbaryonyx package
<4> Build and install

Commit message:

README: add missing nlopt library

README.adoc, after:

= Baryonyx
Gauthier Quesnel <gauthier.quesnel@inra.fr>
v0.3, 201?-??-??
:toc:
:homepage: https://github.com/quesnel/baryonyx/

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Baryonyx[Baryonyx] is an integer and binary linear
programming solver based on the http://www.cse.chalmers.se/~dag/[Dag Wedelin]
heuristic.

[width="15%"]
|============
| https://travis-ci.org/quesnel/baryonyx[image:https://travis-ci.org/quesnel/baryonyx.png?branch=master[Build Status]] | https://ci.appveyor.com/project/quesnel/baryonyx?branch=master[image:https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/github/quesnel/baryonyx?branch=master&svg=true[Build Status]]
|============

Copyright © 2017-2018 http://www.inra.fr/en[INRA]

The software is released under the MIT license. See the LICENSE file.

== Baryonyx

=== Requirements

* `cmake` (≥ 3)
* c++ compiler with c++14 support (`gcc` ≥ 5, `clang` ≥ 3.5)

For recent Debian GNU/Linux and Ubuntu derivatives (remove clang to only use
gcc):

[source,bash]
....
apt-get install build-essential cmake clang
....

=== Recommended

* `nlopt` library - optimization library to automatic parametrization of
  Baryonyx solver.

=== First installation

First, we clone Baryonyx git repository and the submodule.

....
git clone https://github.com/quesnel/baryonyx.git
cd baryonyx
git submodule update --init --recursive
....

Default, baryonyx provides a shared library `libbaryonyx-0.2.so`, a static
library `libbaryonyx-0.2.a` and an executable `baryonyx-0.2`. To compile and
install in default cmake's install directory:

....
cd baryonyx
mkdir build
cd build
cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release ..
make install
....

Previous command line install baryonyx program and library into the
`/usr/local` prefix. If you install into another directory, you need to define
three environment variables (into your `.bashrc` or equivalent). If you install
into `$HOME/usr` for example, you need to define in your `.bashrc`:

....
export PATH=$PATH:$HOME/usr
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$LD_LIBRARY_PATH:$HOME/usr/lib
export PKG_CONFIG_PATH=$PKG_CONFIX_PATH:$HOME/usr/lib/pkgconfig
....

Then run the following commands:

....
cd baryonyx
mkdir build
cd build
cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=$HOME/usr ..
make install
....

To override the default build flags, remove the `CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE`
parameter and override the `CXXFLAGS` as follow:

....
export CC=gcc-7
export CXX=g++-7
export CXXFLAGS='-Wall -Wextra -Werror -ftree-vectorize -mmmx -msse -msse2 -msse3 -O3'
cmake -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=$HOME/usr ..
....

=== Update installation

First, we need to update the Git repository with the following commands:

....
cd baryonyx
git pull -r
git submodule update --recursive
....

Then go to the build directory and restart compilation and installation :

....
cd baryonyx
mkdir build
cd build
cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release ..
make install
....

=== Usage

To run baryonyx in solver mode (ie. trying to valid all constraints):

....
baryonyx-0.2 file.lp
....

To run baryonyx into the heuristic model (ie. trying to valid all
constraints and optimize the solution), add a `-o` or `--optimize`
option to the command line:

....
baryonyx-0.2 file.lp
....

The baryonyx solver have many parameters. Some parameters are global, some specific for the optimization algorithms.

.Table Command line global parameters
[cols="1,1,5a", options="header"]
|===
|name| type| summary

| --help -h
|
| Show help message

| --quiet -q
|
| Remove many console output

| --optimize -O
|
| Start Baryonyx in optimization mode, default is to use the solve mode

| --limit -l -plimit
| integer
| number of loop to stop algorithm

| --verbose -v
| integer
| verbose level from 0 (very very verbose in debug mode) to 7 (quiet)

| --disable-preprocessing -np
|
| disable the use of preprocessing
|===

To assign parameters to solver or optimizer algorithms, use the `-p
[name]:value` syntax in the command line:

.Table Command line parameters
[cols="1,1,5a", options="header"]
|===
|name| type| summary

| time-limit
| real
| time in second to stop algorithm or stop the optimize mode

| observation
| string
| Select the type of observation mechanism

* `none` no observation (default).
* `pnm` produce picture files for the P matrix (one per loop) and Pi vector (Lagrangian multipliers) each loop
* `file` produce CSV files for the P matrix (one per loop) and Pi vector (Lagrangian multipliers) each loop

| limit
| integer
| number of loop to stop algorithm

| w
| integer
| warmup-iterator (number of loop without updating kappa)

| theta
| real
| history parameters [0, 1[

| delta
| real
| influence parameters [0, +oo[

| kappa-min
| real
| kappa minimal value  [0, kappa-max

| kappa-step
| real
| kappa updater [0, +oo[

| kappa-max
| real
| kappa maximal value ]kappa-min, +oo[ to stop algorithm

| alpha
| real
| adaptiveness parameter

| pushing-k-factor
| integer
| use to lower the kappa using the push system

| pushes-limit
| integer
| number of push before stopping the algorithm

| pushing-objective-amplifier
| real
| use to make r more similar to costs

| pushing-iteration-limit
| integer
| number of loop before trying a new push

| norm
| string
| Select the cost normalization function

* `none`  let unmodified costs.
* `l1` use the l1-norm function
* `l2` use the l2-norm function
* `rng` (experimental)
* `inf` (default): use the infinity norm.

| constraint-order
| string
| Remaining constraints order. Values are:

* `none` (default): use the lp format constraint order
* `reversing`: reverse the lp format constraint order
* `random-sorting`: random the remaining constraint list.
* `infeasibility-decr`: compute infeasibility constraint in decremental order
* `infeasibility-incr`: compute infeasibility constraint in incremental order.

| preprocessing
| string
| Constraints matrix A order. Values are:

* `none` (default): use the lp format constraint order.
* `less,greater,equal` or `greater,less,equal` or any other form: use the type of operator
* `variables-number` (experimental): use number variable links.
* `variables-weight` (experimental): sort variables weights (sum variable appearance in all constraints).
* `constraints-weight` (experimental): use number constraint links.

| print-level
| integer
| show information if greater than 0

| init-policy
| string
| Change the (re)initialization policy of the solution vector. Values are:

* `bastert` (default): use cost values.
* `random`: use random value.
* `best`: use best solution found if available (`bastert` otherwise).

| init-random
| real
| [0-1] p parameter of the bernoulli's law.
|===

For example:

....
baryonyx -p limit:1000000 lib/test/prevl1.lp
baryonyx -p limit:-1 -p kappa-min:0.2 lib/test/prevl1.lp
....

=== Upgrade

To upgrade to the latest version of baryonyx, under bash (or
equivalent):

....
cd baryonyx
git pull -r
cd build
make -j4
make install install
....

== R

To use rbaryonyx, you must compile and install the baryonyx library.
Follow the previous section and install R.

=== Installation

The R rbaryonyx package requires several packages. Then, under a R terminal:

....
cd baryonyx/rbaryonyx
R CMD REMOVE rbaryonyx <1>

install.packages("roxygen2") <2>
install.packages("Rcpp")
install.packages("devtools")

library(Rcpp) <3>
compileAttributes(".")
library(devtools)
devtools::document()
devtools::build()
devtools::install()

library(rbaryonyx) <4>
?rbaryonyx <5>
....

<1> Remove previous installed version of rbaryonyx
<2> Install the dependencies of rbaryonyx
<3> Build the rbaryonyx package
<4> Load the package
<5> The help

=== API

Two functions are provided to solve or optimize 01 linear programming
problem. Parameters are the same as `C++ API`. These function returns a
scalar:

* If a solution is found:
** if the problem is a minimization: the value of the solution found.
** if the problem is a maximization: the inverse of the solution found.
* If no solution is found, we use the limits of the objective function (minimal
  and maximal value possible.
** if the problem is a minimization: the maximal value possible + the remaining
   constraints.
** if the problem is a maximization: the inverse of the minimal value possible
   + the remaining constraints.
* If a error occurred (not enough memory, problem error etc.):
** if the problem is a minimization: the maximal value possible + the number of
   constraints .
** if the problem is a maximization: the inverse of the minimal value possible
   + the number of constraints.

[source,R]
----
solve_01lp_problem <- function(file_path, limit = 1000L, theta = 0.5,
  delta = 1e-4, constraint_order = 0L, kappa_min = 0.1, kappa_step = 1e-4,
  kappa_max = 1.0, alpha = 1.0, w = 500L, time_limit = 10.0, seed = -1L,
  thread = 1L, norm = 4L, pushing_k_factor = 0.9,
  pushing_objective_amplifier = 5.0, pushes_limit = 10L,
  pushing_iteration_limit = 20L, init_policy = 0L, init_random = 0.5,
  float_type = 1L, verbose = TRUE)

optimize_01lp_problem <- function(file_path, limit = 1000L, theta = 0.5,
  delta = 1e-4, constraint_order = 0L, kappa_min = 0.1, kappa_step = 1e-4,
  kappa_max = 1.0, alpha = 1.0, w = 500L, time_limit = 10.0, seed = -1L,
  thread = 1L, norm = 4L, pushing_k_factor = 0.9,
  pushing_objective_amplifier = 5.0, pushes_limit = 10L,
  pushing_iteration_limit = 20L, init_policy = 0L, init_random = 0.5,
  float_type = 1L, verbose = TRUE)
----

=== Usage

Apply morris method to found useful parameters:

[source,R]
----
library(rbaryonyx)
library(sensitivity)

factors = c("theta", "delta", "constraint_order", "kappa_min", "kappa_step",
  "kappa_max", "alpha", "w", "norm", "pushing_k_factor",
  "pushing_objective_amplifier", "pushes_limit", "pushing_iteration_limit",
  "float_type")

bounds = data.frame(
  min=c(
    0,     # theta
    0,     # delta
    0,     # constraint_order
    0,     # kappa_min
    1e-16, # kappa_step
    1.0,   # kappa_max
    0.0,   # alpha
    50,    # w
    0,     # norm
    0.1,   # pushing_k_factor
    1.0,   # pushing_objective_amplifier
    10,    # pushes_limit
    20,    # pushing_iteration_limit
    0,     # init_policy
    0.0,   # init_random
    0
    ),    # float_type
max=c(
    1,     # theta
    0,     # delta
    4,     # constraint_order
    0.1,   # kappa_min
    1e-1,  # kappa_step
    1.0,   # kappa_max
    2.0,   # alpha
    500,   # w
    4,     # norm
    1,     # pushing_k_factor
    10.0,  # pushing_objective_amplifier
    100,   # pushes_limit
    200,   # pushing_iteration_limit
    2,     # init_policy
    1.0,   # init_random
    2))    # float_type

rownames(bounds) <- factors

morrisDesign <- morris(model = NULL,
                factors = factors,
                r = 10,
                design=list(type="oat", levels=10, grid.jump=5),
                binf = bounds$min,
                bsup = bounds$max,
                scale=TRUE)

solve_lp <- function(x, file_path, limit=10000, time_limit=10, seed=123456789, thread=1) {
  r <- rbaryonyx::solve_01lp_problem(file_path = file_path,
                   limit = limit,
                   theta = x["theta"],
                   delta = x["delta"],
                   constraint_order = x["constraint_order"],
                   kappa_min = x["kappa_min"],
                   kappa_step = x["kappa_step"],
                   kappa_max = x["kappa_max"],
                   alpha = x["alpha"],
                   w = x["w"],
                   time_limit = time_limit,
                   seed = seed,
                   thread = thread,
                   norm = x["norm"],
                   pushing_k_factor = x["pushing_k_factor"],
                   pushing_objective_amplifier = x["pushing_objective_amplifier,"],
                   pushes_limit = x["pushes_limit"],
                   pushing_iteration_limit = x["pushing_iteration_limit"],
                   init_policy = x["init_policy"],
                   init_random = x["init_random"],
                   float_type = x["float_type"])

  return(r)
}

r = apply(morrisDesign$X, 1, solve_lp, file_path="verger_5_5.lp", thread=1, limit=10000, time_limit=10, seed=123456789)

morrisDesign$Y <- r
mu <- apply(morrisDesign$X,2,mean)
mu.star <- apply(morrisDesign$X, 2, function(x) mean(abs(x)))
sigma <- apply(morrisDesign$ee, 2, sd)

apply(morrisDesign$X, 2, function(v) plot(factor(v), r))
----

Use RGenoud method to found best paramter values:

[source,R]
----
library(rgenoud)
library(rbaryonyx)
library(parallel)

optim_gen_lp <- function(x) {
  r <- rbaryonyx::optimize_01lp_problem(
           file_path = "rail507pre.lp",
           limit = -1,
           theta = x[1],
           delta = x[2],
           constraint_order = 0,
           kappa_min = x[3],
           kappa_step = x[4],
           kappa_max = 1.0,
           alpha = 1.0,
           w = 60,
           time_limit = 10,
           seed = 123654785,
           thread = 4,
           norm = 0,
           pushing_k_factor = 1,
           pushing_objective_amplifier = 10,
           pushes_limit = 20,
           pushing_iteration_limit = 50,
           init_policy = 0,
           init_random = 0.5,
           float_type = 1,
           verbose = FALSE)

  return(r)
}

d = matrix(c(0.0, 0.00001, 0.0, 1e-10,
             1.0, 0.001,   0.2, 1e-4),
             nrow=4, ncol=2)

s = c(0.5, 0.003226, 0.1, 1e-8)

no_cores <- detectCores() - 1
cl <- makeCluster(no_cores, outfile="debug.txt")

claw1 <- genoud(optim_gen_lp, nvars=4,
                Domains=d,
                starting.values=s,
                cluster=cl,
                boundary.enforcement=1,
                max=FALSE, pop.size=10)
----


=== Upgrade

To upgrade to the latest version of rbaryonyx, under bash (or
equivalent):

[source,bash]
----
cd baryonyx
git pull -r <1>
cd build
make -j4 <2>
make install
R CMD REMOVE rbaryonyx <3>
cd rbaryonyx
Rscript -e 'library(Rcpp); compileAttributes(".")'
Rscript -e 'library(devtools); devtools::document()'
cd ..
R CMD build rbaryonyx <4>
R CMD INSTALL rbaryonyx_1.0.tar.gz
----

<1> Update the baryonyx and rbaryonyx from Git
<2> Build and install baryonyx
<3> Remove old rbaryonyx package
<4> Build and install
